1. `Your Computer Asks for Directions (DNS Query)`: When you enter the domain name, your computer first checks its memory (cache) to see if it remembers the IP address from a previous visit. If not, it reaches out to a DNS resolver, usually provided by your internet service provider (ISP).
2. `The DNS Resolver Checks its Map (Recursive Lookup)`: The resolver also has a cache, and if it doesn't find the IP address there, it starts a journey through the DNS hierarchy. It begins by asking a root name server, which is like the librarian of the internet.
3. `Root Name Server Points the Way`: The root server doesn't know the exact address but knows who does – the Top-Level Domain (TLD) name server responsible for the domain's ending (e.g., .com, .org). It points the resolver in the right direction.
4. `TLD Name Server Narrows It Down`: The TLD name server is like a regional map. It knows which authoritative name server is responsible for the specific domain you're looking for (e.g., `example.com`) and sends the resolver there.
5. `Authoritative Name Server Delivers the Address`: The authoritative name server is the final stop. It's like the street address of the website you want. It holds the correct IP address and sends it back to the resolver.
6. `The DNS Resolver Returns the Information`: The resolver receives the IP address and gives it to your computer. It also remembers it for a while (caches it), in case you want to revisit the website soon.
7. `Your Computer Connects`: Now that your computer knows the IP address, it can connect directly to the web server hosting the website, and you can start browsing.

### The Hosts File

The `hosts` file is a simple text file used to map hostnames to IP addresses, providing a manual method of domain name resolution that bypasses the DNS process. While DNS automates the translation of domain names to IP addresses, the `hosts` file allows for direct, local overrides. This can be particularly useful for development, troubleshooting, or blocking websites.

The `hosts` file is located in `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts` on Windows and in `/etc/hosts` on Linux and MacOS. Each line in the file follows the format:

        txt
`<IP Address>    <Hostname> [<Alias> ...]`

For example:

        txt
`127.0.0.1       localhost 192.168.1.10    devserver.local`


## Why DNS Matters for Web Recon

DNS is not merely a technical protocol for translating domain names; it's a critical component of a target's infrastructure that can be leveraged to uncover vulnerabilities and gain access during a penetration test:

- `Uncovering Assets`: DNS records can reveal a wealth of information, including subdomains, mail servers, and name server records. For instance, a `CNAME` record pointing to an outdated server (`dev.example.com` CNAME `oldserver.example.net`) could lead to a vulnerable system.
- `Mapping the Network Infrastructure`: You can create a comprehensive map of the target's network infrastructure by analysing DNS data. For example, identifying the name servers (`NS` records) for a domain can reveal the hosting provider used, while an `A` record for `loadbalancer.example.com` can pinpoint a load balancer. This helps you understand how different systems are connected, identify traffic flow, and pinpoint potential choke points or weaknesses that could be exploited during a penetration test.
- `Monitoring for Changes`: Continuously monitoring DNS records can reveal changes in the target's infrastructure over time. For example, the sudden appearance of a new subdomain (`vpn.example.com`) might indicate a new entry point into the network, while a `TXT` record containing a value like `_1password=...` strongly suggests the organization is using 1Password, which could be leveraged for social engineering attacks or targeted phishing campaigns.
