There are several tools available that excel at brute-force enumeration:

|Tool|Description|
|---|---|
|[dnsenum](https://github.com/fwaeytens/dnsenum)|Comprehensive DNS enumeration tool that supports dictionary and brute-force attacks for discovering subdomains.|
|[fierce](https://github.com/mschwager/fierce)|User-friendly tool for recursive subdomain discovery, featuring wildcard detection and an easy-to-use interface.|
|[dnsrecon](https://github.com/darkoperator/dnsrecon)|Versatile tool that combines multiple DNS reconnaissance techniques and offers customisable output formats.|
|[amass](https://github.com/owasp-amass/amass)|Actively maintained tool focused on subdomain discovery, known for its integration with other tools and extensive data sources.|
|[assetfinder](https://github.com/tomnomnom/assetfinder)|Simple yet effective tool for finding subdomains using various techniques, ideal for quick and lightweight scans.|
|[puredns](https://github.com/d3mondev/puredns)|Powerful and flexible DNS brute-forcing tool, capable of resolving and filtering results effectively.|
### DNSEnum

`dnsenum` is a versatile and widely-used command-line tool written in Perl. It is a comprehensive toolkit for DNS reconnaissance, providing various functionalities to gather information about a target domain's DNS infrastructure and potential subdomains. The tool offers several key functions:

- `DNS Record Enumeration`: `dnsenum` can retrieve various DNS records, including A, AAAA, NS, MX, and TXT records, providing a comprehensive overview of the target's DNS configuration.
- `Zone Transfer Attempts`: The tool automatically attempts zone transfers from discovered name servers. While most servers are configured to prevent unauthorised zone transfers, a successful attempt can reveal a treasure trove of DNS information.
- `Subdomain Brute-Forcing`: `dnsenum` supports brute-force enumeration of subdomains using a wordlist. This involves systematically testing potential subdomain names against the target domain to identify valid ones.
- `Google Scraping`: The tool can scrape Google search results to find additional subdomains that might not be listed in DNS records directly.
- `Reverse Lookup`: `dnsenum` can perform reverse DNS lookups to identify domains associated with a given IP address, potentially revealing other websites hosted on the same server.
- `WHOIS Lookups`: The tool can also perform WHOIS queries to gather information about domain ownership and registration details.

Let's see `dnsenum` in action by demonstrating how to enumerate subdomains for our target, `inlanefreight.com`. In this demonstration, we'll use the `subdomains-top1million-20000.txt` wordlist from [SecLists](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists), which contains the top 20000 most common subdomains.

```shell
dnsenum --enum inlanefreight.com -f /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-20000.txt -r
```