`MySQL` is an open-source SQL relational database management system developed and supported by Oracle. A database is simply a structured collection of data organized for easy use and retrieval. The database system can quickly process large amounts of data with high performance. Within the database, data storage is done in a manner to take up as little space as possible. The database is controlled using the [SQL database language](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_intro.asp). MySQL works according to the `client-server principle` and consists of a MySQL server and one or more MySQL clients. The MySQL server is the actual database management system. It takes care of data storage and distribution. The data is stored in tables with different columns, rows, and data types. These databases are often stored in a single file with the file extension `.sql`, for example, like `wordpress.sql`.

Default Configuration

 ```shell
  cat /etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf | grep -v "#" | sed -r '/^\s*$/d'
 ```
## Dangerous Settings

Many things can be misconfigured with MySQL. We can look in more detail at the [MySQL reference](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html) to determine which options can be made in the server configuration. The main options that are security-relevant are:

|**Settings**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|`user`|Sets which user the MySQL service will run as.|
|`password`|Sets the password for the MySQL user.|
|`admin_address`|The IP address on which to listen for TCP/IP connections on the administrative network interface.|
|`debug`|This variable indicates the current debugging settings|
|`sql_warnings`|This variable controls whether single-row INSERT statements produce an information string if warnings occur.|
|`secure_file_priv`|This variable is used to limit the effect of data import and export operations.|

The settings `user`, `password`, and `admin_address` are security-relevant because the entries are made in plain text. Often, the rights for the configuration file of the MySQL server are not assigned correctly. If we get another way to read files or even a shell, we can see the file and the username and password for the MySQL server. Suppose there are no other security measures to prevent unauthorized access. In that case, the entire database and all the existing customers' information, email addresses, passwords, and personal data can be viewed and even edited.

The `debug` and `sql_warnings` settings provide verbose information output in case of errors, which are essential for the administrator but should not be seen by others. This information often contains sensitive content, which could be detected by trial and error to identify further attack possibilities. These error messages are often displayed directly on web applications. Accordingly, the SQL injections could be manipulated even to have the MySQL server execute system commands. This is discussed and shown in the module [SQL Injection Fundamentals](https://academy.hackthebox.com/course/preview/sql-injection-fundamentals) and [SQLMap Essentials](https://academy.hackthebox.com/course/preview/sqlmap-essentials).

# Footprinting

```shell
sudo nmap 10.129.14.128 -sV -sC -p3306 --script mysql*
```