# SSH TCP 22
[Secure Shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell) (`SSH`) enables two computers to establish an encrypted and direct connection within a possibly insecure network on the standard port `TCP 22`. This is necessary to prevent third parties from intercepting the data stream and thus intercepting sensitive data. The SSH server can also be configured to only allow connections from specific clients. An advantage of SSH is that the protocol runs on all common operating systems. Since it is originally a Unix application, it is also implemented natively on all Linux distributions and MacOS. SSH can also be used on Windows, provided we install an appropriate program. The well-known [OpenBSD SSH](https://www.openssh.com/) (`OpenSSH`) server on Linux distributions is an open-source fork of the original and commercial `SSH` server from SSH Communication Security. Accordingly, there are two competing protocols: `SSH-1` and `SSH-2`.

`SSH-2`, also known as SSH version 2, is a more advanced protocol than SSH version 1 in encryption, speed, stability, and security. For example, `SSH-1` is vulnerable to `MITM` attacks, whereas SSH-2 is not.

We can imagine that we want to manage a remote host. This can be done via the command line or GUI. Besides, we can also use the SSH protocol to send commands to the desired system, transfer files, or do port forwarding. Therefore, we need to connect to it using the SSH protocol and authenticate ourselves to it. In total, OpenSSH has six different authentication methods:

1. Password authentication
2. Public-key authentication
3. Host-based authentication
4. Keyboard authentication
5. Challenge-response authentication
6. GSSAPI authentication

#### Public Key Authentication
