Network File System
`Network File System` (`NFS`) is a network file system developed by Sun Microsystems and has the same purpose as SMB. Its purpose is to access file systems over a network as if they were local. However, it uses an entirely different protocol. [NFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) is used between Linux and Unix systems. This means that NFS clients cannot communicate directly with SMB servers. NFS is an Internet standard that governs the procedures in a distributed file system. While NFS protocol version 3.0 (`NFSv3`), which has been in use for many years, authenticates the client computer, this changes with `NFSv4`. Here, as with the Windows SMB protocol, the user must authenticate.

|**Version**|**Features**|
|`NFSv2`|It is older but is supported by many systems and was initially operated entirely over UDP.|
|`NFSv3`|It has more features, including variable file size and better error reporting, but is not fully compatible with NFSv2 clients.|
|`NFSv4`|It includes Kerberos, works through firewalls and on the Internet, no longer requires portmappers, supports ACLs, applies state-based operations, and provides performance improvements and high security. It is also the first version to have a stateful protocol.|

A significant advantage of NFSv4 over its predecessors is that only one UDP or TCP port `2049` is used to run the service, which simplifies the use of the protocol across firewalls.

NFS is based on the [Open Network Computing Remote Procedure Call](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sun_RPC) (`ONC-RPC`/`SUN-RPC`) protocol exposed on `TCP` and `UDP` ports `111`, which uses [External Data Representation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/External_Data_Representation) (`XDR`) for the system-independent exchange of data. The NFS protocol has `no` mechanism for `authentication` or `authorization`. Instead, authentication is completely shifted to the RPC protocol's options. The authorization is derived from the available file system information. In this process, the server is responsible for translating the client's user information into the file system's format and converting the corresponding authorization details into the required UNIX syntax as accurately as possible.

The most common authentication is via UNIX `UID`/`GID` and `group memberships`, which is why this syntax is most likely to be applied to the NFS protocol. One problem is that the client and server do not necessarily have to have the same mappings of UID/GID to users and groups, and the server does not need to do anything further. No further checks can be made on the part of the server. This is why NFS should only be used with this authentication method in trusted networks.

## Default Configuration

NFS is not difficult to configure because there are not as many options as FTP or SMB have. The `/etc/exports` file contains a table of physical filesystems on an NFS server accessible by the clients. The [NFS Exports Table](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man5/exports.5.html) shows which options it accepts and thus indicates which options are available to us.

#### Exports File
```shell

```
