**In my experience, the Microsoft Learn modules for MS-102 did a great job covering most of the material needed to pass. However, the Microsoft practice exam wasn’t very reflective of the real exam format. I found MeasureUp’s practice tests much closer in style and difficulty - and even noticed a few similar questions appear on the actual test..**

**The MS-102 is challenging and can be hard to fully grasp what every feature does if you do not have real world experience with them. However, there are plenty of labs and materials available out there for you to practice on! If you work in IT and your company is a Microsoft Partner or you have a Visual Studio Enterprise license, you qualify for a M365 Dev Sandbox tenant with 20 E5 licenses, user data, and a ton of premium services in Entra.**

**https://www.certquestionsbank.com/MS-102-exam.html**

**I haven’t been exactly where you are, but 23 yo me also felt very lost. I have two statements that really helped me fix my perspective.**
1. **No one is coming to save you.**
2. **Nothing changes if nothing changes.**
**. Edit to add: when I was 23 I read the book ‘the subtle art of not giving a fuck’ and I found it very beneficial. (Though some say it’s a terrible book,,) take a peek, take what helps and leave what doesn’t.**


**MS-102 - UDEMY**
Hi I used to work at premier inn Wembley stadium at back of the house. I left job on 10th April 2025.  
For last 2/3 months before I left whitbread, I opted for pension which I can see in my payslip. I didn’t get any documents on how to access it. As now I have moved my address as well I wanna know what is process to access/view those pensions account?
Just to let you know i doont live in old address which was registered with company, i have moved to different address 
Name: Atish Ojha  
Email: [atishojha17@gmail.com](mailto:atishojha17@gmail.com)  
Employee number: 50303653  
Work place: Premier inn, Wembley Stadium  
For last 2/3 months before I left whitbread, I opted for pension which I can see in my payslip. I didn’t get any documents on how to access it. As now I have moved my address as well I wanna know what is process to access/view those pensions account?

Regards,

Atish Ojha